Choosing the right one has a huge impact on how the readers experience a website.
The right font can create a strong identity for your brand.
Using a font that is easy to read is important.

There are five generic font families:
1. Serif fonts have a small stroke at the edges of each letter. They create a sense of
formality and elegance.
    Times New Roman, Georgia, Garamond
2. Sans-serif fonts have clean lines (no small strokes attached). They create a modern
and minimalistic look.
    Arial, Verdana, Helvetica
3. Monospace fonts - here all the letters have the same fixed width. They create a
mechanical look.
    Courier New, Lucidad Console, Monaco
4. Cursive fonts imitate human handwriting.
    Brush Script m7
    Lucida Handwriting
5. Fantasy fonts are decorative/playful fonts.
    Copperplate
    Papyrus
(All the different font names belong to one of the generic font families)
On computer screens, sans-serif fonts are considered easier to read than serif fonts.


Web safe fonts are fonts that are universally installed across all browsers and devices.
for HTML and CSS:
• Arial (sans-serif)
• Verdana (sans-serif)
• Tahoma (sans-serif)
• Trebuchet MS (sans-serif)
• Times New Roman (serif)
• Georgia (serif)
• Garamond (serif)
• Courier New (monospace)
• Brush Script MT (cursive)


Google fonts are free to use, if you do not want to use any of the standard ones.
<link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Sofia||">


Great font pairings are essential to great design.
Basic rules pairings:

1. Complement
It is always safe to find font pairings that complement one another.
A great font combination should harmonize, without being too similar or too different.
2. Use Font Superfamilies
A font superfamily is a set of fonts designed to work well together. So, using different fonts within
the same superfamily is safe. For example, the Lucida superfamily contains the following
fonts: Lucida Sans, Lucida Serif, Lucida Typewriter Sans, Lucida Typewriter Serif and Lucida Math.
3. Contrast is King
Two fonts that are too similar will often conflict. However, contrasts, done the right way,
brings out the best in each font. Example: Combining serif with sans serif is a well known
combination. A strong superfamily includes both serif and sans serif variations of the same
font (e.g. Lucida and Lucida Sans).
4. Choose Only One Boss
One font should be the boss. This establishes a hierarchy for the fonts on your page. This can
be achieved by varying the size, weight and color.





font-family: should hold several font names as a "fallback" system, to ensure maximum
    compatibility between browsers/operating systems. Start with the font you want,
    and end with a generic family. If the first font does not work, the browser will try the
    next one, and the next one, and so on.

font-style: normal, italic, oblique
font-weight: normal, bold
font-variant: nomal, small-caps

font-size: can be an absolute (specified size, not allow the user to change it, useful when
    the physical size of the output is known), or relative (sets it to sorrounding elements,
    allows the user to change it). If you don't specify, the default is 16px (1em).
    If you use pixels, you can still use the zoom tool to resize the entire page.
    With em allow users to resize the text (the size can be calculated from pixels to em using
    pixels/16=em). Use a combination of percent and em, works in all browsers, 
    set a default font-size in percent for the <body> element.
    A responsive fs will follow the size of the browser window, set with a vw unit
    (viewport width). Viewport is the browser window size. 1vw = 1% of viewport width.
    If the viewport is 50cm wide, 1vw is 0.5cm.

    px, pt, cm, em,..., vw



font: style variant weight size / line-height family